# [Illuminating Mario Scenes in the Latent Space of a Generative Adversarial Network](https://arxiv.org/abs/2007.05674)

ID: Issue #260

## Summary

This paper explores the use of QD algorithms to search the latent space of a GAN, to create levels that vary across a set
of speciﬁed gameplay measures on the benchmark problem of generating playable Mario levels, 
while retaining the style of human-authored examples. 

They compare random search and a single-objective optimization of continuous spaces to a few QD algorithms that are MAP-Elites variants (see Algorithms) to
search the latent space of a DCGAN trained on level scenes from Super Mario Bros. 

## Relevance to survey topic (1-5)

Relevance: 4 

Very relevant as the paper studies the effectiveness of QD algorithms on searching latent space across measures of diversity, but focuses on GANs. 

## Algorithms

- Random search
- (CMA-ES) (Covariance Matrix Adaptation Evolution Strategy - a single-objective optimization of continuous spaces) [1]

QD:

- MAP-Elites [3]
- MAP-Elites (line)
- CMA-ME (Covariance Matrix Adaptation MAP-Elites) [2]

## Benchmarks

- Super Mario Bros 

## Metric Results

- How is quality measured? approximate playability of a scene by how far through the scene A* (A* agent that won the 2009 Mario competition.) reaches;
- How is diversity measured? different types of behavioral characteristics (BCs) are specified - sky tiles and number of enemies. 

Algorithm quality measures are evaluated by calculating the percentage of valid cells: that is scenes in the archive returned by the algorithm that are completed
from start to end by the A* agent. 

Algorithm diversity is calculated by measuring coverage (percentage of cells in the archive produced by an algorithm). 

QD-Score (sum of ﬁtness values of all elites in the archive) distills both the diversity and quality of elites in the archive. 

- Also performed a user study to determine if mechanical diversity of the generated levels translates to perceptual diversity
  in how human players perceive the scenes and how they vary in difﬁculty.

## Paper Tags

Tag paper with relevant categories. See [here](https://github.com/Dahoas/QDSyntheticData/blob/main/papers/categories.json) for list of all category tags.

1. SYNTH - generating Mario scenes
2. SEARCH - finding diverse high-quality solutions

## Relevant related work

[1] Hansen, N. 2016. The CMA evolution strategy: A tutorial. https://arxiv.org/abs/1604.00772 

Introduces CMA-ES (Covariance Matrix Adaptation Evolution Strategy) - It is a single-objective optimiser algorithm used as a baseline 
for searching the continuous (GAN latent) space. 

[2] Fontaine et al. '20. Covariance Matrix Adaptation for the Rapid Illumination of Behavior Space https://arxiv.org/abs/1912.02400 

Introduces Covariance Matrix Adaptation MAP-Elites method. 

[3] Mouret, J.-B.; and Clune, J. 2015. Illuminating search spaces by mapping elites https://arxiv.org/abs/1504.04909 

MAP-Elites

## Other comments

### Results: 

QD algorithms, i.e., MAP-Elites, ME (line) and CMA-ME outperform CMA-ES and random search. 

CMA-ME outperforms the other QD algorithms in terms of coverage and QD-score. 

