# [Diversity of Thought Improves Reasoning Abilities of LLMs](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.07088)

## Summary

DIVSE (DIVerse reasoning path Self-Ensemble)

The main question that the paper tries to solve is:
How one can create and leverage variations of the input prompt as a means of diversity of thought?

The paper proposes a procedure to generate diverse set of prompts to solve a problem by feedback from the LLM on elements of the prompt.

Diversity is ensured through running inference with multiple prompts, each with a different approach and persona pairs and augmented few-shot examples.

## Relevance to survey topic (1-5)

Relevance: 3

## Algorithm

Use of "personas" i.e.:
- "Thinking like Alan Turing"
- "Thinking like Math Professor"

Use of "approaches" i.e.: 
- working backwards
- using direct calculation
- method of elimination

```
DIVERSEPROMPT(size, type, F, D, V ) 

Step 1: Identify different approaches to be used. 
    A = {a_1, . . . , a_n_} ← det_approaches(D)
    where A is the set of approaches 

Step 2: Identify different personas to be used. 
    P = {φ, p1, . . . , pm} ← det_personas(D) 
    where P is the set of personas 

▷ Step 3: Find the best combination. 
    S = {s_1, . . . s_size} ← combine(A, P, size, V ) 
    where S is the set of combined approaches and personas, and s_i = (p, a_i ∈ A) 

▷ Step 4: Augment the few-shot examples. 

▷ Step 5: Compose the final prompt. 
    O ← compose(T, S, type) 
```


## Benchmarks

Tasks evaluated:

- AQUA-RAT
- MATH
- CQA
- Blocksworld
- Graph Coloring

on GPT 3.5 / GPT 4. They don't train anything.

## Metric Results

- How is quality measured? Accuracy of tasks
- How is diversity measured? N/A
- Fine-tuning results? N/A

## Comments

I think is just prompt engineering, no "novelty" besides the interesting use of "Personas" in the prompt generation. They don't provide the list of personas and approaches yet, those could be re-used as synthetic material.


## Datasets
- [AQUA-RAT: (Algebra Question Answering with Rationales)](https://github.com/google-deepmind/AQuA)
- [Planning](https://github.com/karthikv792/LLMs-Planning)